Alignment. A moment of exchange, after which everyone remains on their own side again, away from each other. Something exists several times, but now resembles each other. The clock comparison before the robbery, in the course of which each one acts for itself. A moment of pause, before one unsynchronizes again little by little. At one point the connection is made, white is white, from then on the colors dissipate in all directions.

There is no hierarchy in the stereo images of Kontakt .... Instead, there is a peculiar spatiality; the fond is calm, the center vibrates, individual fragments shimmer. Calmness, vibration and shimmering cannot be dissected into left-right, the juxtaposition is in pure form, from which any diagonals of comparison have disappeared. The stereoscopic view is like the dissolving of a tablet in sparkling water, where despite a steady decrease a fine, a subtle hissing remains at the threshold of perception.

Like the two As of a scale, like the two Ps of a seesaw, the sense of balance needs two ears, two receptacles for endolymph. Closure not only of the ear, nervousness and sadness unbalance it, cause its nystagmus, rhythm and dizziness.

In the texture, as in the text, we have shapes that repeat themselves in the fabric. Stroke by stroke, word by word, line by line. There is something atmospheric about this-the texture of warm moving air. Always flat and relational, texture rather than urtext. As small forces working between the elements.

Looking at one's own hand, probably finding five fingers. Always already there as a group, pre-found. One imagines: Five little fingers next to each other. Then: Five ring fingers next to each other. Then: Five middle fingers next to each other. Then: Five index fingers side by side. Finally: Five thumbs side by side. As boring as the whisked pictures from the Generative Adversary Network.

Like fingers, the ramifications of a plant grow simultaneously, not parallel timelessly as in the Lindenmayer system, but evenly in time. Fingers, ramifications, all kinds of tentacles suffice to pick up or kick off thread figures. Bare feet on the textured floor, warmed by air movements throughout the day. Feeling the surface as a surface, driving along, as a total image of all tentacles signals.

The typeface. An apparent separability of the discrete and the continuous. Strokes and spaces. Lifting the head, squinting the eyes until a uniformity is established. Helping the already set pulse width modulation to dim and noise. While others dream of quantum computers, thinking the digital simply in its negotiation with the non-digital, shifting from the incalculable to the incalculable.

Being in contact: Being on the ground with your feet (or other tentacles). Being attached to the ground, but only until the next step or jump. Spatiality arises from the principled (unconditional) willingness to swap places, to jump in: swap space. Swappable places characterize a non-holobiontic. Linking individuals, individual steps generates a topology, but not yet a space. Being in contact is a back and forth.

The same is a manufacture (perhaps only selection or observation). We think first of the parallel, the constant distance between the two dashes =. Doubt exists, and so one assures oneself in the trinity ≡ that really everything is absolutely equal. The dashes are made, before they took this state they were a whirlpool. The ver in comparison is treacherous. In the comparison the things are twisted, around a point: æ. In this they must touch. The same is a crossing. The parallelism is in retrospect, before that was ægal.

Why does this appear as a qualification in brackets: Writing (simultaneous), Contact (simultaneous), Achromatic (simultaneous)? It is the attempt-in the first and last case-to reconfigure a previous work under the aspect of the simultaneous. It is a reminder not to lose the direction. But also a clarification: writing, but not just any writing, but the idea of simultaneous writing, therefore really a question: what could it mean? What could simultaneous colorlessness be, equally colorless? In simultaneous contact, something "touches itself", digitally produced proprioception prevails - the lichen fragments with their past or future form. Or: Man and lichen perhaps want to establish contact independently of each other, and what would that be?

Freeing oneself from looking too much at the individual in isolation. Easier said than done. In Writing ... the three glass tables come together as segments, but each Petri dish group still has its own sound memory, making the relay clicking less suggestive of a relay race than an endlessly spinning Kodak Carousel. This is due to the limited processing speed of the miniature computers, which thus have three relay circuits each to change their sound phrase. A new version of Schreiben ... would proceed differently and return to a passing around of the same object.

A space can be thought of as spanned by operational closure, but like a laser image or a cathode ray, the reaching around must be fast and the afterglow long enough. One must create a spectacle, produce an immersion, which I argued against not long ago when we described the creation of space through poetic gaps in in|fibrillæ. How must the gaps be constituted in order to arrive at a space spanned by simultaneities? Perhaps by subjecting the gaps to dynamic modulation, in that a sequence of impulses never quite breaks off, a careful relay click, rather like in the violinist's reed, a minimal contact noise is kept going, bridges briefly appear and disappear again.

In in|filtration the space is not immersively generated, but phoretically. The same is initially the grid of the physical space as well as the repeated algorithms despite their location-dependent individuation. There is an irregular lighting up that we as visitors* willingly follow, even if we mostly don't reach it or don't reach it as expected, almost like mooks, only that we follow them to keep moving, to experience the space and generate it in the process. In the hybrid (online as well as physically installed) work in|fibrillæ, all fibers are packed inside the digital. Space and visitors exchange places. An invisible figure on the virtual surface of enlarged branch stumps now operates the phoresy, tilting the surface over which words roll as in a maze of marbles. The viewers stand rooted to the spot.

We need to learn and invent forms of unsynchronization. Is it already equal? Not yet, but equal; equally equal. Slowing down, accepting uniformity, like the days one spends on an island without clock and calendar as pure juxtaposition, in which things push themselves unhindered to head presence over each other, where it is no longer important to distinguish next to and over. Equanimity comes after the fall.

